Our convention theme is so timely.
The world is full of conflict and anguish.
People long for peace, and they long for unity,
which is the focus of this month's broadcast.
Our theme is, stand together as one united people.
Let me begin with a question.
Where do you keep your wallet?
If you're out in public, you brothers likely keep it in your pocket,
maybe a front pocket, so that it doesn't get lost or stolen.
You sisters might carry your wallet in a purse or handbag,
which you keep close by your side.
You guard your wallet, because you know that if you get careless,
a thief might steal it, and you might never see your wallet
or its contents again.
It is similar with the precious unity we enjoy as Jehovah's people.
We need to guard it and protect it, or else someone might steal it.
Make no mistake.
The devil is looking for an opportunity to steal our unity from us.
Think about how unique our unity is.
Unlike other religious organizations, we're not divided into sub-denominations.
We don't have Northern Jehovah's Witnesses, Orthodox Jehovah's Witnesses,
or Reform Jehovah's Witnesses.
As the Apostle Paul expressed it, we are united in the same mind
and in the same line of thought.
We are also united internationally.
We don't fight against one another in the wars that divide nations.
And we are united racially.
Many times, witnesses have risked their lives to protect their fellow Christians of another race
who were being threatened or persecuted because of their racial or ethnic background.
We are also united in our purpose.
For example, no matter where we live,
we all preach the same good news.
And we all receive the same weekly spiritual instruction.
Can you find this unity out in the world?
Look around.
People are divided.
Nations attack each other.
And within nations, political parties fight one another.
Corporations compete with and destroy each other.
And citizens commit racially or ethnically motivated hate crimes against each other.
What a contrast that is with Jehovah's worshipers.
We stand together as one united people.
Why, though, do we each need to guard and protect our unity?
Can't we safely assume that Jehovah will protect it?
And that he will see to it that our unity is preserved?
Not entirely.
Guarding the unity of God's people is a responsibility that Jehovah has given each one of us.
We must do our part to ensure that we stand together as one united people.
What will happen if we don't?
Divisions will occur among us.
Divisions that resemble what we see in the world.
It happened in the first century congregation in Corinth.
To them, Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 11,
there are dissensions among you.
What kind of dissensions?
Some said, I belong to Peter.
Others said, I belong to Paul.
And still others said, I belong to Apollo's.
Paul felt compelled to ask at 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 13,
is the Christ divided?
What a reproach on Jehovah's name and on true worship.
By failing to guard their unity, those early disciples were making Christianity look like
just another religion.
Could something like that happen in a congregation today?
It could happen if individuals cared more about their own personal preferences,
conveniences, and opinions than they do about the unity of Jehovah's people.
Selfishness is not the fruitage of Jehovah's spirit.
Rather, it reflects the spirit of the world.
The world is aggressively promoting the view that you should put yourself first.
But we have learned Jehovah's view.
1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 24 tells us to keep seeking not our own advantage,
but that of the other person.
In chapter 13 verse 5, Paul wrote that love does not look for its own interests.
And he states at Romans chapter 15 and verse 3 that the Christ did not please himself.
Therefore, we cannot afford to care more about our privileges, our pride, or our opinions,
than we do about Christian unity.
If we put our own wants first, then just like a man who leaves his wallet out in public for a thief to steal,
we place the congregation's unity in plain view for Satan to snatch.
And there is no doubt that the devil will seize the opportunity and the congregation will suffer.
We need to accept our personal responsibility to guard and protect our unity,
not only as a congregation, but also as field service groups, families,
married couples, and friends.
So let's now discuss four areas where we especially need to guard and protect our Christian unity.
The first is our response to direction from Jehovah's organization.
When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in 2020, we all received direction,
including new ways to attend our meetings and carry out our ministry and ways to comply with the secular authorities.
Did you disagree or did you have a different idea?
If so, did you follow the direction anyway and give it your support?
If you did, then you contributed to our unity.
When we stand together and unitedly follow direction from Jehovah's organization, good things happen.
Like what? Like what happened when the first century Christians complied with the direction from the apostles and older men in Jerusalem.
Acts chapter 16 verses 4 and 5 says,
As they traveled on through the cities, they would deliver to them for observance the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem.
Then indeed, the congregations continued to be made firm in the faith and to increase in number day by day.
Individual Christians and congregations recognized and submitted to the authority of the governing body at that time, the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
Did you note the beneficial results? The congregations continued to be made firm and to increase.
And that's what happened when you, brothers and sisters, follow the direction regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.
We experienced significant increases in meeting attendance.
The attendance for the 2021 memorial reached an all-time peak.
It is amazing what Jehovah accomplishes when we stand together as one united people.
A secondary in which we need to protect our unity is culture.
Jehovah's organization is diverse.
We love to be introduced to different kinds of food, different styles of dress and interesting customs. How wonderful.
But what if we started feeling that my race, my tribe, my ethnicity, my culture is superior?
Can you see how that kind of thinking would divide us?
To preserve our unity, we need to focus not on how we are different from one another, but how we are the same.
We are Jehovah's Witnesses first, not African, Asian, North American, South American or European.
Our people are our spiritual family, our spiritual brothers and sisters.
Our culture is genuine Christianity.
When we are willing to adopt Jehovah's thinking that we learn from His Word, even setting aside our own personal customs or culture, if necessary, we stand together as one united people.
We experience what the Bible describes at Zephaniah, chapter 3 and verse 9.
For then, I will change the language of the peoples to a pure language so that all of them may call on the name of Jehovah to serve Him shoulder to shoulder.
How wonderful.
A third area is personality differences.
Growing up in this divided world, we may have absorbed some of its sensitivities, but Ecclesiastes, chapter 7 and verse 9 says,
Do not be quick to take offense.
If a fellow Christian hurts our feelings, we have a special opportunity and obligation to show that we stand together as one united people.
How can we do that?
And forgiving one another freely, even if anyone has a cause for a complaint against another, just as Jehovah freely forgave you, you must also do the same.
Some imperfections and slights are so small, do they really require formal forgiveness?
Because of our human imperfection, we need to do what Paul says.
We have to learn to just put up with them.
For example, maybe a certain family did not include us in a gathering at their home or a brother failed to greet us in the kingdom hall or call on us to give a comment at the meeting.
These things may irritate us or even hurt our feelings, but they are not sins that we need to forgive.
They are mere slights or imperfections that we need to learn to put up with.
On the other hand, if a fellow Christian has actually sinned against us in some way, giving us a genuine cause for complaint, what does the scripture encourage us to do?
Forgive one another freely.
That is what Jehovah does for you and for me.
Putting up with and forgiving one another is vital if we are to stand together as one united people.
Our fourth area is how we respond when our brothers are in distress.
While coping with the COVID-19 pandemic, numerous lands were hit by other disasters, hurricanes, volcanoes, fires.
But our brothers also experience other forms of distress like the effects of old age, the loss of a loved one in death, chronic health problems, and the list goes on and on.
What do Jehovah's Witnesses do when we see our brothers in distress?
We immediately come to their aid. We stand together in this very selfish and divided world.
This is not a small thing.
It is not something to take for granted.
Jesus said at John 13 verses 34 and 35 that this deep, unselfish love in action would identify his true disciples.
Therefore, brothers and sisters, as we work hard to stand together in the four areas that we have discussed,
we give powerful evidence that we are true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Jesus knew that unity was vital.
On the night before he was put to death, he was concerned that his disciples would remain united.
He prayed at John chapter 17 and verses 20 to 22.
I make requests, not concerning these only, but also concerning those putting faith in me through their word, so that they may all be one, just as you father are in union with me, and I am in union with you, that they also may be in union with us, so that the world may believe that you sent me.
I have given them the glory that you have given me in order that they may be one, just as we are one.
Obviously, Jehovah answered that prayer.
He is teaching us to stand together as one united people.
Therefore, dear brothers and sisters, let us renew our determination to protect our Christian unity by following direction from Jehovah's organization, by valuing Jehovah's thinking more than our own culture,
by putting up with and forgiving one another freely, and by helping one another in times of distress.
By doing so, we will not allow Satan to steal our precious unity. Instead, we will stand together as one united people.